---
layout: post
title: Using Raspicam C++ API - with OpenCV
tags: [raspicam, C++, OpenCV]
---

## Introduction
One thing raspberry pi stands out is the ability to use its `Pi Camera Module` (now in v2), which offers fast speed (up to 90 fps) and quality images, thanks to the 8 megapixel `Sony IMX219` sensor. At the price tag of $30, it beats most, if not all webcams in the market. Besides you can buy the NoIR (as no infrared filter) version, together with the included `Rosco Blue` filter (blocking blue to visible light), you now have a basic NIR (near infrared) camera, bravo!

There is no official C++ api, but thanks to [AVA](https://www.uco.es/investiga/grupos/ava/node/40) group, the `Raspicam C++ API` makes it easy to use the camera module just like the python api. The current version is 0.1.6. Though itself dose not have much documentation, we can find those on [picamera](https://picamera.readthedocs.io/en/release-1.13/) site  by just looking for their names.

Building the library is pretty straight forward, but before that you may want to modify the `getShutterSpeed` function in `raspicam.cpp` as below, so it will return the correct shutter speed:
```
unsigned int RaspiCam::getShutterSpeed() const {return _impl->getShutterSpeed();}
```


## Raspicam with OpenCV
Almost everyone use opencv nowadays, so it's natural to follow the example using `reaspicam_cv.h`. But I would recommend to simply use `raspicam.h` instead. The `cv` implementation has conversions that are not in line with the `picamera api`, and may cause confusion. It is much clearer to setup the camera the way with the native meaning. To use the `raspicam` with `opencv`, the only thing needed is to copy the image retrieving part from `raspicam_cv.h`, or make your own `PiCamera` class and paste function here:

```cpp
#include <raspicam/raspicam.h>

class PiCamera: public raspicam::RaspiCam
{
public:
  using RaspiCam::retrieve;
  void retrieve ( cv::Mat& image ) {

    image.create ( getHeight(), getWidth(), CV_8UC1 );
    retrieve ( image.ptr<uchar> ( 0 ));
  }
};
```

All the important type constants were defined in `raspicamtypes.h`, so be sure to take a look there.
